So let's have a look at the definition of cyber threat intelligence in more detail.

This definition is coming from the center for Internet Security.

And the question what is cyber threat intelligence is answered by them as cyber threat intelligence

is knowledge about the adversaries and their motivations, intentions and methods that is collected,

analyzed, and disseminated in ways that help security and business staff at all levels to protect critical

assets of the enterprise.

And really, the most important thing here by far, is the fact that we try to gather motivations,

intentions and methods of adversaries.

A lot of times, threat intelligence is confused with gathering just IOCs or identifying the latest

exploitation framework that threat actors leverage.

But it's really more about identifying the motivations, intentions, and methods and we call this ttps.

So the tactics, techniques and procedures, which simply means we are interested in the behavior of

threat actors out there.

And this is really the important thing that I want to convey here.

Yes, we look at tools.

Yes, we look at software and technology and all that stuff.

But really cyber threat intelligence is more than gathering domains that are leveraged for big campaigns

or IP addresses.

It's way more about identifying the behavior and identifying the bad groups in the first place.

And why do we do all of this?

We do this to enable a threat informed defense, meaning the intelligence we gather as part of cyber

threat intelligence is something that every enterprise should leverage to make their defenses better,

to make their SOC more efficient, to make their SoC better informed.

In terms of what Tractators are out there, what tactics, techniques, and procedures are those threat

actors using and how can we defend against this?

This is really the entire purpose of cyber threat intelligence.





















