I just introduced a concept of threat informed defense as part of cyber intelligence.

And now let's have a look at the questions that threat informed defense is supposed to answer for us.

So let's have a look at the first question.

This is something like what is the mission of my organization.

So mission is something like why does your organization exist in the first place?

For example, if you're an automotive company, the mission is to produce cars.

If you work in healthcare, the mission is to, for example, produce goods for healthcare, right?

So that is the mission.

And the next question and why this is actually important is what threat actors are interested in my

organization's industry.

Because if your mission is to produce cars, there may be threat actors that are interested in violating

your business, for example, with ransomware or that are interested in stealing your latest intellectual

property because they want to build their own cars.

Right?

And if you have the mission statement correctly, um, you have an easier way of answering what threat

actors are actually targeting your industry.

Um, based on your mission, you can also go ahead with the next question, which then states, what

are the motivations of those threat actors?

Right.

If we stick back to the car example and your mission is to produce cars, and you are afraid that there

are threat actors that steal intellectual property related to those cars, you have the motivation.

They want to get your intellectual property.

They want to leverage what you have designed already to include this in their cars.

And then you have to ask yourself, what types are those threat actors using?

So what tactics, techniques and procedures, um, are those threat actors using to accomplish their

mission?

Is it, for example, if they want to steal intellectual property, is it advanced exploits that try

to gather your IP, or do they want to disrupt your production by, for example, attacking you with

ransomware?

This is something that you answer as part of this step.

And then the next question, naturally is how can I detect and protect my organization against those

ttps?

And this shows you the power of threat informed defense and shows you why cyber threat intelligence

is important.

Because think of a scenario in which you have a SoC that has like EDR, XDR, SIM deployed and really

does a good job, has a three tier model, does threat hunting and forensics, yada yada.

If you don't have the intelligence to do, first of all, whom to protect against.

And secondly, the tactics, techniques and procedures that they are using, you will have a way worse

job because it will be way harder for you to protect against those because you don't know what to protect

against.

So what you're doing is and you are really providing a very generalized service in your SoC.

Um, instead, you should gather this intelligence and really focus a majority of your defenses to protect

against those actors and to protect against the ttps that they are using.

And this is what we call threat informed defense.
