A very important concept in cyber threat intelligence is also the context of tactics, techniques and

procedures, and very often they are abbreviated as the so-called ttps.

So what are tactics, techniques and procedures?

Let's start with the tactic.

A tactic is a high level description of the behavior and strategy of a threat actor.

Yeah, that's very high level.

We talk about a strategy.

We talk about their objectives and their motivations.

We don't talk about them leveraging PowerShell and leveraging exploit XYZ.

We talk about the behavior and strategy.

So again the very high level objectives.

This is very much in contrast to the techniques because this one is way more specific.

This is really on how the tactic action can be realized.

Yeah.

So we talk about more details here.

We don't talk about their motivations any longer.

We talk about how they accomplish their objectives.

And then we have the procedures.

And procedures are typically a sequence of actions, um, that leverage the techniques.

And they are also way more in detail than the techniques.

So this really goes from the very high level tactics down to the very low level procedures.

Here we actually talk about deep dive, uh, explanations on technology.

And if we for example, um, compare that to what the Mitratech framework is offering with regards to

tactics, techniques and procedures.

Just a bit different because Mindat.org names the procedures sub techniques instead.

You can also quickly see, um, the logic behind that.

So a tactic would for example, be that the adversary or the threat actor is doing reconnaissance,

meaning their objective is to gather information.

They want to have information on their target, but this is not telling you how they do it.

That's just the motivation and the objective that they want to accomplish this.

The technique is a bit more specific because they tell you, hey, they can actually, um, accomplish

their objective of doing reconnaissance by doing scanning, active scanning.

And of course, there are various ways to scan, and the technique does not tell us how they do it.

Right.

Just tells us that they do.

Scanning.

Um, but this is what the procedure or in the case of Mider, the sub technique is explaining which

is vulnerability scanning.

And if you have a look at the Militech framework, you will also see that there are various tools out

there that can do vulnerability scanning.

And there are various forms of it.

Um, but I think this example shows it pretty well that tactics focus on the high level objectives.

Techniques tell you how this is done, but not in very much detail and procedures or sub techniques.

In the case of minor attack, they really go into the details and tell you how things are done.

So this is it for Ttps keep that in mind because that's a very important concept in cyber threat intelligence.