So let's talk about the next concept, which is IOCs and Ioas.

And very often I see those topics being mixed up.

But that's not really good because we need to be really clear on what we talk about.

First of all, let's start with IOC.

And IOC is an indicator of compromise, which acts as an evidence on a system that indicates that the

security of the network has been breached.

And a few examples on IOCs can, for example, be file hashes.

So files that you found on certain systems.

And this hash corresponds to something that is known to be bad.

And same with domains or URLs in your NetFlow logs for example.

And then you have ioas.

That is a big contrast to an IOC, because an IOA is really an indicator of attack that focuses on detecting

the intent of what an attacker is trying to accomplish and its behavior, regardless of malware or exploits

used in the attack.

So as you can see, Ioas is really focused on the intent and the behavior of a threat actor, which

is completely different than IOC.

In IOC, we talk about an individual file hash on a system.

We talk about domains or URLs that are present in your environment.

And sometimes we also talk about, um, exploits or malware leveraged, um, for example, as part of

a malicious file.

This is not the case with Ioas at all.

With Ioas, we really talk about, uh, TPS.

So we talk about, again, the behavior of a threat actor.

We talk about, um, how, um, they behave in your environment and what their intent is in the very

first place.

And this is, of course, a completely different approach when we talk about how to operationalize both

concepts.

Um, IOCs is something that you typically ingest into your CIM solution that is also present in EDR

and XDR solutions.

And then those tools simply correlate IOCs with what they see as part of, for example, your network

traffic or files being present on an operating system.

So really on a technical level, whereas Ioas is way more focused on, um, studying the behavior and

intent of various detectors, um, and trying to see whether the intent and behavior is something that

correlates to your enterprise and really around the concept of threat informed defense that we discussed

earlier, making sure that your enterprise can protect itself against the behavior, um, that is carried

out as part of those ioas.