All right.

So let's talk about threat hunting.

What is threat hunting?

Threat hunting is defined as the practice of proactively searching for cyber threats that are lurking

undetected in your environment.

So what does this really mean in practice?

In practice, this means that most bigger security operations centers or like internal security teams,

have people dedicated to do threat hunting.

And this means that they proactively search your environment and look for basically signs of adversaries

in your systems.

And typically there are big two approaches that your threat hunters can take, um, to accomplish their

mission.

And the first one is the so-called intelligence based hunting.

And in this one, the threat hunters focus on leveraging IOCs such as hash values, IP addresses to

main names or host artifacts.

And the thing with that is that one is, is that that's of course.

More related on, um, real infrastructure that the adversaries are leveraging, such as their IP addresses

or domain names or specific files.

It's not really about their behavior.

It's more on what detailed level things they are really leveraging.

Um, the more common, let's say, variant of doing threat hunting is the so-called hypothesis based

hunting.

And the reason for this one is that it more focuses on ioas and ttps of adversaries, and therefore

more on behavior means it's way, um, way more complex.

But it also gives you the option to discover way more than just correlating your logs and your system

files and all that with IOCs.

The thing is, is that the first variant.

So the intelligence based hunting is a bit static in a sense that you only look for things that you

receive as intelligence, for example, in form of a threat feed, um, whereas the second option is

more complex, but it's also way, way broader because it focuses on behavior.

You're not focused on individual IOCs, but instead you try to identify what Ttps adversaries are leveraging

that may target your organization and try to find them in your network.

In reality, most people that do threat hunting actually combine both methods.

So for everything that is like, um, commodity malware or like smaller campaigns, intelligence based

hunting is super fine because you will have a lot of findings in most cases, um, with regards to IOCs

and hash values and all that, because they are simply known and it's rather easy to hunt for those

in your network.

Um, but it's also quite important, especially if you operate in a bigger organization and may fear

that certain adversaries that are known target you as well.

It's also quite important to hunt based on their behavior.

So based on IOCs and Ttps, which is why most organizations follow like a hybrid approach where they

simply combine both of those models.