All right.

So let's have a look at what intelligence really is.

And if we look at various definitions that exist out there, we will quickly see a common picture.

And first of all, we will see that intelligence is actually information that has been refined and analyzed

to make it actionable.

And the really important piece here is first of all that we talk about information.

So intelligence can be really anything.

That is an information.

However this piece of information needs to be refined and analyzed.

And the important part here is that we can leverage this with actionable advice.

In the end, that's the important part.

Um, if we look at how the US military is actually defining intelligence, and that's actually something

you will also see later on when we talk about cyber threat intelligence and in general cyber security,

a lot of terminology is, um, taken from military actions.

That's just in the nature of cybersecurity.

We a lot of terms originate from the military.

Um, and what you currently see is the definition from the US military's primary joint intelligence

doctrine.

And this one says intelligence is defined as information on its own may be of utility to the commander,

but when related to other information about the operational environment and considered in the light

of past experience, it gives rise to a new understanding of the information which may be termed intelligence.

And that is exactly what we talk about.

Now, you may have wondered, what is the difference between pure information or data and intelligence?

And the difference is actually rather easy, because if we look at the difference, data is just something

that can be considered a fact or a statistic.

And in most cases when we talk about data, we actually mean something that can be measured, for example,

your weather temperature.

So if you say we have like 30 degrees out there, that is not intelligence, that is data, because

all you did is you measured the temperature.

But there is no actionable advice behind that.

Right?

It's just data.

Um, however, intelligence would be that you actually derive from the process of collecting, processing

and analyzing those data.

So in in the example of the weather temperature, what this would mean in fact is yes, you collect

the temperature by simply measuring it, but then you process and analyze it and you construct actionable

advice from it.

So intelligence would be something like, yeah, it's 30 degrees out there.

Um, so let's process this.

And achieve some advice from this.

So for example hey, we measured it's 30 degrees.

Um, so.

Pack your t shirt.

Don't pack your, um.

Yeah, your pullover, your, um, big jackets.

Because you won't need it because it's 30 degrees, right?

Um, that would be a super easy example.

But that's exactly what intelligence is about.

We don't just collect data, instead we make it actionable.

So the difference between data and information and real intelligence is the process of analyzing it

and deriving actionable advice from it.

So that's what intelligence really is.

Let's have a look in the next sections on what we can do with it and how we can collect, process and

analyze it correctly.