Good.

Let's have a look at the sources where we can gather intelligence from.

And you already see a lot of abbreviations here like Humint, Osint and Geoint.

And we will have a look at all of those to see what they are standing for and what those data sources

really are, and how we can collect intelligence from those sources.

Let's start with the human source intelligence, also sometimes abbreviated as human intelligence or

Humint.

And this one is really collecting intelligence from human sources through, for example, interviews,

conversations with individuals, like for example, in the bakery in the very morning, social engineering

or other forms of communication.

So it's really about human interaction to gather intelligence from them.

As a second one.

We have the signal source intelligence.

And here it is all about collecting intelligence by intercepting electronic signals.

And this can, for example, be through phone calls, emails, chats, instant messaging, or what you

are maybe familiar with more from a cybersecurity perspective gathering, for example, NetFlow data

or doing IP traffic monitoring.

That's a really common source in cyber threat intelligence, of course.

Then we have another very common source for cyber threat intelligence, which is the open source intelligence

or Osint.

And this one we collect data through open source, meaning we leverage Osint tools and platforms, like

for example, Shodan.

We leverage threat intelligence feeds from various providers and that provide us with meaningful intelligence.

We leverage public databases, and we also leverage what is, for example, um, existing in the dark

web, uh, to see what kind of intelligence can we utilize for our threat Intel programs.

Then there is also, I would say, a more exotic source of intelligence.

This one is, of course, heavily utilized in the military, but not really in cyber threat Intel,

but because we talk about intelligence in total, I also included this one here, which is the image

resource intelligence.

And this one we collect intelligence through visual representations such as photography or radar, for

example, again, somewhat rare to leverage that one in cyber threat Intel.

Another one that is a bit rare in cyber threat Intel, but very common in military intelligence is the

so-called measurement and signature source intelligence, or mASINT.

And in this one we collect intelligence through the measurement and signatures, for example nuclear

signatures.

Optical signatures, things like radio frequency acoustics or even seismic signatures.

So things like earthquakes or something are really referring to seismic activity in total.

Um, this is something that we do here.

In the next one we have the so called Geospatial Source Intelligence, or Geoint.

This one also somewhat rarely used in cyber threat Intel, but of course heavily in the military.

And in this one we collect intelligence through, for example, aerial photography and especially satellites,

of course, but also terrain data.

Then we have financial intelligence.

In the beginning, looking at this term, you would think that this is something that you don't leverage

in cyber security.

You actually do.

And there is one very important, um, use case where you do that.

And this is when it comes down to tracking cryptocurrency transactions.

Financial intelligence is actually heavily leveraged to track down, um, ransomware campaigns that

leverage cryptocurrency, because there is still the big myth that you cannot trace, um, cryptocurrency

transactions, for example, from Bitcoin.

You actually can.

Um, and this one, that is something that you also do as part of financial intelligence.

Good.

That's it for the various forms of intelligence.

You saw that there are some that are quite heavily utilized in cyber threat Intel, such as open source

intelligence, um, or signal intelligence.

But there are also some that are rather rarely used because they are more heavily leveraged across the

military.

Still, I think this provides a good overview of, um, what data sources can actually be leveraged

for intelligence in total.