So let's talk about the Azure global backbone a bit more in detail.

And when I say backbone I really, really mean the data centers and all their connectivity across the

globe.

This is what is typically referred to as a backbone.

The numbers that you can see on the slide will be outdated rather soon already, because Microsoft is

like heavily pushing and investing into the global backbone all the time, especially with the recent

rise of AI.

They, of course, need a lot of data centers to power this, and this also results to the fact that

there are continuously new Azure regions.

And of course, with that, a lot of new data centers and connectivity between them.

Looking at the actual numbers, by the time of this recording we have around 60 Azure regions.

And again, this will of course expand naturally over time.

Then we have over 130 miles of fiber, plus of course a lot of subsea cables that connect the various

continents between each other.

There are over 172 network edge sites.

The purpose of this is to bring, um, basically the infrastructure closer to the users by establishing

those edge locations, over 500 network partners, of course, a lot of very prominent ISPs in there.

So internet service providers and then over 20,000 peering connections between the various regions and

data centers.

So as you can see, quite an extensive backbone.

The purpose of this is, of course, to provide very good performance to the users, have a lot of fault

tolerance and business continuity and disaster recovery built in.

And this is basically what the backbone is all about.

It's about providing Azure as good as possible to its users.